[Music]
I'm about to board the flight to go to
Cairo three years ago I became the first
human to ever get a legal permission to
climb the Great Pyramid of Giza this
folder contains signed documents from
the Egyptian ministers of tourism
antiquities Egyptian military homeland
security and intelligence all giving me
and my friend Oscar a written consent to
go ahead and climb the pyramid you're
probably thinking to yourself if this
guy actually made history and became the
first human to climb the pyramid with
legal permission then you're probably
known about it well you're right I
haven't climbed the pyramid quite yet
the story took so many turns and I came
closer to doing it than any other human
has before
[Music]
ladies and gentlemen we just came out of
the Supreme Council of Antiquities and
we got the paper officially climbing the
pyramids we got our signatures on it a
dream man for a climbing tomorrow baby
around - stay tuned
climbing the Great Pyramid of Giza was
the first dream I have ever had I
visited the pyramids for the first time
when I was four and I still
distinctively remember asking my dad if
I could ever climb to the top he said
absolutely not and for some reason that
just stuck with me over the years until
I decided to do something about it so in
November of 2014 I was a sophomore at
university in Canada and just one random
night I showed up to my friend Oscars
dorm room and I asked him if he wanted
to come to Egypt with me over Christmas
break and try and convince the
government to let us climb the pyramid
and the plan was to pitch the climb as a
media stunt in order to promote Egyptian
tourism which at the time was much neat
it still is but we just thought we'd
give it a try
Oscar was in and we can mist GoPro to
give us a few cameras in order to
capture the journey so jump forward to a
month later Oscar and I arrived in Egypt
and the million-dollar question is where
the heck do I even start
the concept of being legally permitted
to climb the pyramid was just so
outrageous and out of the norm that
every government official that I've
talked to would just get so mad at me
for having such a request I was
constantly made fun of and occasionally
kicked out of offices it took 37 days of
driving three hours nearly every single
morning to some sort of a government
office until I found that one person
with the appropriate amount of authority
to actually sign off on the idea and
help us push it forward the downside of
that however is that Oscar and I only
had four days left in Egypt before we
had to fly back and start school and to
be honest at that point I had heard the
phrase this will never happen so many
times that I wasn't expecting anything
anymore and on that note I decided to
take Oscar on a road trip and head to an
oasis in the middle of the desert and
hopefully get to do something fun in our
last days
[Music]
and on the morning we arrived at the
oasis after driving through the night we
got a very high-profile phone call that
phone call informed Oscar tonight that
we've been granted every single legal
permission we need from every single
entity involved to make this happen so
we pretty much got the green light to go
ahead and climb the pyramid and we were
asked her turn to cairo immediately
media was lining up to cover the event
that date and time was set and we were
just ready to go all right so this seems
to all be going pretty smoothly where
the things go wrong one of the
high-ranking government officials who
had rejected our request before telling
us that we will never be able to get any
sort of permission to climb the pyramid
was just so [ __ ] mad that we were
able to pull it off so on the day of the
climb when Oscar and I arrived at the
gates to the pyramid we were blocked off
and we spent hours and hours arguing
with the security there trying to show
them that we had every single document
necessary
but still somehow his word was just
against ours and we just couldn't pull
it off and that was honestly just like
that's gotta be like the most
demoralizing moment of my life
Oscar and I had no other option but to
just fly the next morning and head back
to Canada I stayed in touch with the
government and I told him about what
happened at the gates and they were very
apologetic and they promised that I can
come back in the summer of 2015 and
actually go ahead and climb the pyramid
but a few months before summer the
entire cabinet was replaced than every
single Minister and government official
that had been working with was just out
of office and even though that was the
single most demoralizing experience of
my whole entire life it somehow gave me
motivation to just continue pursuing my
dreams and the most daring ways possible
believe it or not this was actually the
first story that I've ever shared with
Thomas and Matt when we met in the
summer of 2015 and within a few days of
knowing each other we had just bonded
over the shared desire to live bolder
lives and that marked the start of yes
theory I don't know when I'll get to
climb the pyramid but there's just not a
single doubt in my head that I will get
to make it happen one day I wanted to
all of this with the best intentions to
promote my country and its people and
its history and I will always stand by
that mission no matter what I've had the
chance to do the climb illegally by
bribing guards and just doing it sneekly
at night but I would just never go about
it in a way that disrespects the value
and the history of the pyramids all
right enough of that let's get to the
fun part of the video a few weeks ago we
all want to Egypt I actually got to give
the guys a very unique first experience
of the last standing wonder of the
ancient world the Great Pyramids of Giza
enjoy
[Music]
I've been to the pyramid countless times
but I've actually never been inside
three you guys in for the first time all
the kings belongings would've been here
but it was
history when I was where was the first
time I visited here and I just looked up
I was like I want to be up there one day
and I'm still hoping that one day it
will I'm just happy that to be bringing
you here today because this is my
absolute favorite spot in Egypt as
cliche or history goes it may sound just
called my horse guy he's gonna have ten
horses ready for us he lives just like
basically the fence this house is just
by the purpose you're saying there's so
funny how you're just hooked up like you
who has a horse guys don't worse guy I
have a horse guy I'm going to him right
now got a camera guy fella
this is Abdullah I met him a couple
years ago and he was just like at a
curvy kind dude that I met by the
pyramids and he told me he has horses
and ever since I've been riding with him
every time I've jumped you should give
him a call
yeah me horses out and I'm go right at
night so I'm excited to take you guys
along let's read some horses no but look
is the hot pot show gonna put all of it
what do I hold ready yeah don't look now
we're not going yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
what do you say yeah I'm doing that I'm
gonna be riding horses as we see the
pyramid on the side it's gonna be ploys
but we're going through a secret path
into the desert into like the desert
part around the pyramid because
otherwise foreigners wouldn't be allowed
in so this is he's doing us a favor yeah
[Music]
it's very sorry on seeing the pyramids
for the first time in the dark like this
[Music]
you